examples/README.md, before:

# AlphaSwarm Examples

## Quick Start

> **Note**: In all examples below, set your Anthropic API key in the `.env` file or change the `model_id` to an OpenAI model (e.g. `gpt-4o`) if using OpenAI.

### Basic Example: Quote for a token pair

[Basic Example 01 - Quote](basic/01_quote.py) is a first "hello world" example that:
- Initializes the AlphaSwarm agent with a token price checking tool
- Uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet to process natural language queries
- Connects to Base network to fetch real-time token prices
- Demonstrates how to query token pair prices (AIXBT/USDC) using natural language

Run the example:
```bash
# cd alphaswarm/examples
# Make sure you've configured your .env file first!
python basic/01_quote.py
```

### Basic Example: Execute a token swap

[Basic Example 02 - Swap](basic/02_swap.py) is a follow-up example that:
- Initializes the AlphaSwarm agent with a token swap tool
- Uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet to process natural language queries
- Connects to Ethereum Sepolia network to execute a token swap
- Demonstrates how to initiate a token swap (3 USDC for WETH) using natural language

Run the example:
```bash
# cd alphaswarm/examples
# Make sure you've configured your .env file first!
python basic/02_swap.py
```

### Strategy Example: Check trading strategy and optionally execute it

[Basic Example 03 - Strategy](basic/03_strategy.py) dives into the optional execution of a trading strategy given input signals that:
- Initializes the AlphaSwarm agent with both strategy analysis and token swap tools
- Uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet to process natural language queries
- Defines a simple trading strategy: Swap 3 USDC for WETH on Ethereum Sepolia when price below 10000 USDC per WETH
- Evaluates the trading strategy conditions using real-time market data when triggered
- Conditionally executes trades only when strategy conditions are met

Run the example:
```bash
# cd alphaswarm/examples
# Make sure you've configured your .env file first!
python basic/03_strategy.py
```

## More Examples

Check out the `interaction/` directory for more complete examples:
- [Command-line interface usage](interaction/terminal.py)
- [Setting up Telegram bot](interaction/telegram_bot.py)
- [Running strategies on a schedule](interaction/cron.py)

Commit message:

Cron agent with price momentum and portfolio info (#93)
* Implement cron_observer example

* price change tool and observer agent example

* price change observer example

* remove interaction example in favor of observer agent example

* modified price chg observer example to use a basic LLM task

* lint

* update example using existing tools only

* lint

* checkout price from main

* log formatting

* critera change

* message formatting

* simplify design - agent is just a trade executor

* use the refactored tools

* first version of the agent with portfolio info

* minor updates

* clean up before merge

* dev lint

* Delete basic_price_momentum_cron.py

* lint and re-org

* mypy fix

* ruff fix

* bug fix

* PR suggestion

* use * to unpack

Co-authored-by: Nikolaiev Dmytro <nikolaevdmitryprog@gmail.com>

* Default should_process to len(input_str) > 0

* add helper format_signal_message

* doc updates

* update to trading prompt

* change prompt wording

* clean up

* chain to network at tool level

* update test

* linter

* address minor comments

* add additional checks for input fields

* use portfolio client instead of tool

* create and use PriceChanges dataclass

* minor reorg

* future annotations

* Update README.md

* better readme descriptions

---------

Co-authored-by: Dmytro Nikolaiev <nikolaevdmitryprog@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ethan <jackson.ethan.c@gmail.com>

examples/README.md, after:

# AlphaSwarm Examples

## Quick Start

> **Note**: In all examples below, set your Anthropic API key in the `.env` file or change the `model_id` to an OpenAI model (e.g. `gpt-4o`) if using OpenAI.

### Basic Example: Quote for a token pair

[Basic Example 01 - Quote](basic/01_quote.py) is a first "hello world" example that:
- Initializes the AlphaSwarm agent with a token price checking tool
- Uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet to process natural language queries
- Connects to Base network to fetch real-time token prices
- Demonstrates how to query token pair prices (AIXBT/USDC) using natural language

Run the example:
```bash
# cd alphaswarm/examples
# Make sure you've configured your .env file first!
python basic/01_quote.py
```

### Basic Example: Execute a token swap

[Basic Example 02 - Swap](basic/02_swap.py) is a follow-up example that:
- Initializes the AlphaSwarm agent with a token swap tool
- Uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet to process natural language queries
- Connects to Ethereum Sepolia network to execute a token swap
- Demonstrates how to initiate a token swap (3 USDC for WETH) using natural language

Run the example:
```bash
# cd alphaswarm/examples
# Make sure you've configured your .env file first!
python basic/02_swap.py
```

### Strategy Example: Check trading strategy and optionally execute it

[Basic Example 03 - Strategy](basic/03_strategy.py) dives into the optional execution of a trading strategy given input signals that:
- Initializes the AlphaSwarm agent with both strategy analysis and token swap tools
- Uses Claude 3.5 Sonnet to process natural language queries
- Defines a simple trading strategy: Swap 3 USDC for WETH on Ethereum Sepolia when price below 10000 USDC per WETH
- Evaluates the trading strategy conditions using real-time market data when triggered
- Conditionally executes trades only when strategy conditions are met

Run the example:
```bash
# cd alphaswarm/examples
# Make sure you've configured your .env file first!
python basic/03_strategy.py
```

### Agent Example: Make trading decisions based on price momentum signals and portfolio balances

[Portfolio Price Momentum Agent Example](agents/portfolio_price_momentum_cron.py) demonstrates a more sophisticated trading agent that:
- Implements a portfolio-aware momentum trading strategy using AlphaSwarm's agent framework
- Monitors multiple token prices on a schedule using Alchemy's price feed from a CronJobClient
- Evaluates both short-term (e.g. 5min) and long-term (e.g. 60min) price momentum signals to assess directional alignment (upward for buying or downward for selling)
- Makes a dynamic trading decision based on the above signals and the current token balances in the portfolio
- Additionally, the agent can be configured to limit individual trade sizes and maintain a minimum balance in your base token

Run the example:
```bash
# cd alphaswarm/examples
# Make sure you've configured your .env file first!
python agents/portfolio_price_momentum_cron.py
```

## More Examples

Check out the `interaction/` directory for more complete examples:
- [Command-line interface usage](interaction/terminal.py)
- [Setting up Telegram bot](interaction/telegram_bot.py)
- [Running strategies on a schedule](interaction/cron.py)
